# FIFAI: Faux-Fun

FIFAI: Faux-Fun is a football management game, where you control how the players
behave.

Programme your players' behaviour using the lua programming language, and watch
as they seamlessly come together, their teamwork mirroring the elegance found in
the eternal balet that is the beautiful game.

## Devlog

Coming Soon*

## API Documentation

At some point, if this takes off, I'll write up the documentation for the API 
onto a wiki, and link to it from here. In the mean time, I'm focussing on the
development of the game, and those of you who are more comfortable with lua code
can find the relevant bits for the AI API to be in the `cls_api.lua` file.

## About

I came across a game called [Screeps](https://screeps.com) and I thought it was 
a fantastic idea. My mind immediately started coming up with ideas for games 
that used user-coded AI in a similar way. FIFAI: Faux-Fun was the idea that 
stuck with me the most.

It's name is horrendously silly, and I love it. FIFAI is a portmanteau of FIFA,
the [International Federation of Football](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFA), 
and AI. It's a portmanteau of acronyms, which made me come up with another two
portmanteaus: portmantonym or acromanteau. And Faux-Fun is a description of the
idea, really, as you're just watching your creation work (or not), rather than
playing the game yourself. And together it (almost) makes the poem of the giant
from Jack and the Beanstalk: [Fe Fi Fo Fum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fee-fi-fo-fum).

## Football AI

I have in my head the idea that FIFAI: Faux-Fun could be a good introduction to 
programming. It gives a known context to people (a game of football), a clear 
goal (create an effective football player) with multiple different ways to do 
so, and familiar actions (run, kick ball) and conditions (is there a defender 
near me? Am I offside?)

Many of my friends have started to try to learn to code, and have given up, 
feeling frustrated. I think a lot of this frustration is tied to not have a 
clear understanding of their own capabilities. It's hard to go from following 
along tutorials to programming something from scratch. My aim is that FIFAI: 
Faux-Fun will bridge that gap by providing an opportunity for that same level of
problem solving that programming necessitates, but with a concrete, familiar, 
context.

I was also hoping to create a visual programming language alternative to coding
your AI in lua, but that seems like a big job.

I was also wondering about applying machine learning to the task of creating a 
good footballing AI, like [MarI/O](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qv6UVOQ0F44).
Obviously the realm of available actions to a player is a lot greater in 
football than in Mario (more left, move right, jump. But maybe that just makes 
it more tempting.

## Screenshots

Coming Soon*





\* May not be coming for a while. 
